have you seen or have you noticed a difference in
the role of women or the way women are treated
between the north and the south?
I think that in a sense you may be talking I really
don't see the stereotype of the southern woman. I
see people filling the stereotype, that's not
what I mean. But I don't feel, I think the southern
woman is just as strong as the northern woman. And I
think she may role play a little bit more and
may seem more feminine But there are lots of very
feminine women in the North, too. I think you can
build up stereotypes until really they're
meaningless. But I went to school in the 50s in
North Carolina. I knew a lot of Southern women. And
most of them were hell on wheels. I mean, they were
super intelligent. They were manipulative. Many
of them were full of leading families. They knew
how to juggle power. They could be feminine. I have
a friend in Texas who is one of the most feminine
women. If you spoke to her, you would say, this is
the personification of the stereotype of the
Southern woman. She is sweet. She is sugary. So on
and so forth. And I want you to know this woman can
manipulate legislators in the field of mental
health. I mean, she can get people to do almost
anything. And she's super smart. And she has a
publication list as long as three arms.
And when my daughter first met her, she really
didn't like her. You see, because she took that
stereotype. But when she got to know her, it was a
different matter. And Dr. Merritt has been
looking at ranch women. And you get some of that
role playing there, but on the other hand, these
women are just super. I mean, they fill men's
roles, or they fill important roles. This
business of a man's role versus a woman's role. I
think some of these are stereotypes.
There are in every society women and men who do not
perform well. Men as well as women. And it depends
on how you analyze this. It's just like women who
say women do derogatory tasks and men do all the
important things. A lot of nonsense. You sit down
and you figure out how many derogatory tasks men do
like carrying out garbage or so and so forth versus
washing dishes. I mean, whatever it is, there are
always problems. That kind of leads to my next
question. Well, you know, some people feel that
marriage is a form of servitude and, you know,
why women accept men, their husband's name, and
that when they get married, they tend to lose their
identity. And, you know, how do you feel about
this?
I think housework is a form of servitude anyway. I
mean, I don't enjoy housework. And, I mean, I don't
think it's anything profitable. It's like going
to search out bibliography using a car file and
index when you can do it on the computer. You know,
it's a waste of time. If there's an easier way of
doing it, do it. There are certain things I like. I
like to cook if I didn't gain weight. And I like to
sew. I mean, just because it's different from what
I do every day. So there are lots of things I like to
do, but I think housework is drudgery. And unless
it's something you like to do as a hobby or to do
something different from your everyday work,
everybody has to do it until we have robots or
something that will do all these tasks, both male
and female. I mean, if you're living in a house,
somebody's got to keep it clean and somebody has to
cook the meals unless you can afford to eat every
meal out. Somebody's got to do it. And if it's a male
living in a house, the male has to do it. If it's a
female living in a house... Now, there are people
who have had... who do not have a husband or a wife
who will do these things. In other words, there are
women who say, my husband will not lift a finger in
the house. And I think that is very hard. I happen to
have a husband who has always been willing to help.
And if one of us has special work, then the other one
tries to free the other one. And almost everybody
that we knew who were in school with us did the same
thing. And large numbers of working families
share the work. But my father always did things. He
didn't clean, but he would do the dishes. And in
some ways, my mother is a really good cook, but in
some ways there were things that my father could
cook better. Not that he... that he rushed around
doing it. But mother never had to carry out the
garbage. She never had to do all the, never had to
worry about house repair or any of those things. I
mean, it was a sharing of responsibility. I think
sometimes after a while you get awfully tired of
some of these things and you think, well, I need
help. But you really have to assess how much the
other person does. I see. And did you feel that when
you got married and accepted your husband's name,
that you lost some of your identity or your being a
separate person? No, but nobody was talking about
that then. Maybe I would have if everybody had been
talking about it. But what's in a name, really? And
I know that younger faculty members feel
differently about this. But what's so precious
about your father's name versus your husband? I
mean, in our society, names come down through the
male line. In some societies, they come down
through the female line. I'm not sure that this
makes you a better person or makes you less of an
individual. I mean, Margaret Mead would have been
Margaret Mead whether she was a mead or whatever
her maiden name was. I just don't think... I don't
think the name... I think you can put too much
emphasis on these things and not put emphasis on
getting your work done. Do you feel that women
today, and when you talk about the younger
faculty, do you think that they put too much into
these things?
I think there's a little bit too much... I don't
think you can interpret everything that happens
to you as being male-female. And I think when you do
this, you're mishearing everything else that
happens. And you're always looking for someone
who is discriminating against you. And I just
think it's a waste of time. But I have,
if I had been discriminated against seriously, I
mean in an area that was especially important to
me, if I had had work limitations or had felt that
the resources in a particular department was such
that I was not getting my share, maybe I would feel
the same way.
You've got to look at the way a lot of men feel, too.
Because you can be in a department with all men, and
half the men can feel that a department head or a
corporate head is
discriminating against them. And what reason do
you give? Because they're male? I mean, there are
people, if you have an all-male division, there
are going to be people who feel that they're being
discriminated against. What's the basis of that
discrimination? Talent? Ability to sell
yourself?
I
believe in equality,
but I think there are better ways of fighting for it
than to keep dwelling on it. For example, I'm not
sure how important women's studies are.
I don't think any area ought to be neglected. But I
really feel in education at this point in time, you
ought to be educating people for jobs. How do you
educate people for jobs? What are they going to do
if they have a whole bunch of courses in women's
studies? Is everybody going to teach women's
studies? Or is everybody going into an agency that
is going to guarantee civil rights of females?
I mean, what are you going to do with women's
studies?
That's a good point. Yeah, I mean, I can understand
that if I were teaching a course in... that fit into
that category that I might want to fight for just
because I might want to teach a course in that area.
But I think the bottom line is, what can you do with
it? Is it going to get you a job, meat on the table,
new clothes, a house? And I don't see it as being a
profitable area.
Well, Dr. Shepherd, those are all the questions
that I have for you. Is there anything that you
would like to add?
How
do you feel about
some of the things you've heard? Well, I'm still
trying to assess it all. It's been very
interesting to get a different point of view after
interviewing Dr. Sell and you. And I'm going to go
on and try to interview Dr. Merritt. And I think
that will be just another person's point of view.
And I'm interested in this because I'm looking at a
career in academia, in research, and being a
professor. And so I'm just kind of taking it all in,
trying to make my own decisions. Well, I think it's
one of the easier fields for women to be in. I
think that
if and when you marry, it's always helpful to marry
somebody who is understanding. But there are
always, it doesn't matter whether you're married
or you have a roommate or whatever the situation
is, If work demands a major proportion of your time
and you're not able to juggle things so that you're
not assuming responsibilities in the private
sector of your life, there are always conflicts.
In other words, if you have a roommate and you don't
keep your your room clean or you don't do your share
of the work, there's going to be conflict. So
there's going to be conflict anywhere. Living
together with people means that there's got to be a
give and take. And why one would expect that there
wouldn't be, I don't know. But it almost, some
of... of the expressed attitudes make it appear
that women have the hardest row and men don't. And I
guess over the years, certainly since the
development of the overt women's movement, a lot
of young men, students at the university, have
come to me and they have they have raised questions
about how they can handle their personal life.
They have met this girl and they really like her and
she wants to have a career and if they had their way
that would be okay up until the time they have
children. But you know that The woman doesn't feel
that way. How do you handle this and not lose the
girl? I mean, essentially some of the same things
that women are feeling. You know, how much do you
really tell someone you're thinking of marrying
about the way you really feel? And
I guess, you know, the off-the-cuff answer is it's
better to at least explain how you feel and talk
about how you can work it out. rather than
role-playing and then getting into marriage and
suddenly finding that you were married to this
person who has very different views. If you had
discussed them and worked out some arrangement
before marriage, it would be a lot easier. But it's
hard. In any courtship situation, there's a lot of
role-playing. And it's hard to get by that.
A
few years ago, when we began to get a lot of change,
young people as well as old people living
together, unmarried, and stuff like that, I had a
secretary who worked for me on a research project.
And she was very outspoken. Her husband was
getting a doctorate in something like tree
genetics. And she had a little boy. And a lot of the
graduate students used to flock around her. She
was quite an interesting person and very, very
talented. I mean, she was way overqualified for
secretary, so it was great for me. And they would
talk about some boy they were living with. in town.
And she would say, you're all crazy. She says,
you're living with this person and you're doing
his laundry and you're doing all these things and
you're sitting around hoping that he'll marry
you. And she says, you don't get any of the perks
that you get when you're courting. Because he
never takes you out or take you out very seldom,
never spends any money on you, no gifts. And she was
really quite interesting. And I had a graduate
student who very romantically met this boy in
December, just before the, oh,
I would say maybe three weeks from now. And her car
broke down, and he lived in her apartment area.
She'd never met him, and he helped her fix it. And so
she invited him to dinner. And then they saw each
other every day for about three weeks before he
went out into, he was in banking, or he was going to
be in banking. And he had to serve an
apprenticeship for a semester in his graduate
program. So he went out to California to do this,
and she was madly in love with him. And so he asked
her to come and live with him for a month to see
whether they could get along. And so our secretary
said, oh, you know, that's a lot of nonsense, you
know, and so on and so forth. And, uh, principally
because she was afraid the girl would have her
heart broken, you know. And so she asked me what I
thought, and, uh, and I said, well, I didn't think
It was such a hot idea. But she went anyway. And she
went out there for three weeks. She was working on
her thesis at the time. She went out there for three
weeks. She came back with a diamond the size of a
cantaloupe. Oh, my goodness. And she had this big
wedding. I mean, and she's very happily married
and has two children now. So, you know, that was the
last time I opened my mouth. But they don't all
happen like that. Because a lot of them happen like
the secretary said, that the girl is hoping the
boy's going to marry her, and nothing happens. Or
the boy is hoping the girl will marry him, and she
doesn't. So interpersonal relationships are
very difficult. And they are complicated by
changes, and not knowing how to change them, and
not knowing how to communicate feelings. Not to
communicate them with this. It's either going to
be this way or not at all. But to communicate them
with, I care for you. How can we work this out? That
kind, a more reasonable approach.
And I think we'll have problems for a while. But I
don't see any way in our society that females
will be removed from the workforce unless large
numbers of jobs are removed. In fact, there may be
more females in the workforce than males if
females are more technically oriented, more into
the kinds of jobs that are going to be available in
the next several years. I mean, you look at the
number of students in business And I think they're
over the 50% mark now in female. That's
interesting. At least, someone told me that. I
don't remember whether it was Dawn Wood who told me
that or not. Somebody told me quite recently.
Well, I'll have to look into it and find out those
statistics. That would be very interesting. But
you see, in those fields, and the number of women
engineers is increasing.
Well, thank you for your time. You are very
welcome.